Jehovah is the great healer. Only He can make the promise. No resident will say,
I am sick. Why can we be confident that Jehovah is going to keep his promise to bring
an end to all sickness? We find assurance in the words of Isaiah
chapter 35 verses 5 and 6. Please open your Bibles to that Scripture. Here we read a promise
of healing that Jehovah made to the nation of Israel. This promise gives us hope, because
it was actually fulfilled on a small scale more than 2,500 years ago.
Isaiah chapter 35 verses 5 and 6 reads. At that time, the eyes of the blind will be opened,
and the ears of the deaf will be unstopped. At that time, the lame will leap like the
deer, and the tongue of the speechless will shout for joy. For waters will burst forth in the
wilderness and streams in the desert plain. Isaiah recorded this promise 125 years before the
Babylonian army destroyed Jerusalem. It was fulfilled after Jehovah freed the Israelites from
Babylonian captivity in 537 BCE and restored them to their homeland in Israel. But you may ask,
were the blind, deaf, lame, and speechless really healed at that time? To answer, we need to
apply a basic principle. Jehovah restores what was lost. During the 70 years of exile,
Jehovah did not punish the Israelites by striking them with physical blindness,
deafness, lameness, and loss of speech. Therefore, their restoration would not require the healing
of their physical disabilities. However, these afflictions are a good description of the
self-inflicted spiritual sickness that had caused the nation to fall into apostasy and lose Jehovah's
favor. Jehovah saw their repentant attitude and their desire to restore true worship in Jerusalem.
He healed their spiritual sickness by forgiving their sins and restoring them to his favor.
In other words, they came to their spiritual senses. They regained their spiritual vision
and their ability to hear, obey, and speak Jehovah's word. No longer spiritually lame,
they were energized to carry on Jehovah's pure worship. Similarly today, we are eyewitnesses.
Yes, we are the beneficiaries of a worldwide spiritual healing program.
Jehovah heals us spiritually by freeing us from false religious teachings and unclean practices.
He has brought us into a spiritual paradise where our spiritual strength is renewed day by day.
In a spiritual sense, the blind are learning to see and the deaf are learning to hear.
But is spiritual healing the only part of the fulfillment of Jehovah's promise?
No. Please open your Bibles to Isaiah chapter 33 and verse 24.
As we read this verse, pay attention to the latter part because it contains the key
to understanding why physical healing is included in God's promise. No resident will say,
I am sick. Isaiah chapter 33 verse 24 says,
and no resident will say, I am sick, the people dwelling in the land will be pardoned for their error.
Did you notice that the end of sickness is related to our being pardoned for our errors or sins?
Clearly, that ties the fulfillment to a spiritual healing.
However, our imperfect sinful condition is also the reason that we get physically sick.
Therefore, in the new world, on the basis of the healing power of Jesus' ransom sacrifice,
we will experience a healing of our physical sicknesses.
Jehovah's promise that no resident will say, I am sick, will come true in the complete sense.
As you watch the following video, think about the spiritual blessings we enjoy now
and imagine what our lives will be like in the future when all our physical ailments will be healed.
True freedom. The spiritual health we enjoy now reminds us that perfect physical and mental health
await us in paradise. Imagine waking every day, feeling clean, healthy, happy
and full of the joy of life. Jehovah promises, no resident will say, I am sick.
How refreshing and heartwarming to think of the global healing that lies ahead.
We are confident that this is going to happen. Why? Because we have already experienced
how Jehovah has healed us spiritually. Keep in mind the powerful statement from the video.
The spiritual health we enjoy now reminds us that perfect physical and mental health await us
in paradise. We also learned from the video that clear instruction from Jehovah draws us close to
him and helps us to maintain our spiritual health today. What a blessing it is to be taught by
Jehovah. We can show our appreciation for this spiritual healing by thanking Jehovah in prayer.
Psalm 40 verse 5 mentions another way we can thank the great healer for all he has done and will do
for us. Let's read it. Psalm 40 and verse 5 says,
How many things you have done, O Jehovah my God? Your wonderful works and your thoughts toward us.
None can compare to you. If I were to try to tell and speak of them,
they would be too numerous to recount. Our gratitude to Jehovah will move us to tell others about
Jehovah's wonderful works, to speak of the many things he has done. And we will never run out of
good things to say about our God. Those who respond favorably will come to know Jehovah as their
great healer and enjoy his friendship forever. Granted, today many of us are dealing with serious
health challenges, but we do what we can to share with others this good news about healing.
And we take delight in Jehovah's promises which cannot fail.
When Jesus was on earth, no sickness was beyond his ability to heal, whether it was physical,
mental or emotional. In the new world, such healings will take place on a much grander scale,
and the cures will be permanent. Many of the great crowd will go through the great tribulation
with serious debilitating illnesses. Our publications have said that it seems reasonable to expect
that shortly after the destruction of Satan's system of things, miracles like those that Jesus
performed while on earth will no doubt take place on a global scale. That will allow all survivors
of the great tribulation to have a satisfying share in transforming this earth into a beautiful
paradise. And by the end of Jesus' thousand year reign, they will reach the very fullness of
perfect human life. As we enjoy the rich blessings of our spiritual paradise now,
let's keep in mind that these spiritual blessings are evidence that all the promises of the great
healer will come true. We will forever take delight in the complete fulfillment of Jehovah's promise
that no resident will say, I am sick. Brother Garrett Lush, a member of the governing body will now
present the final talk of this symposium. Take delight in God's promises of peace. He will swallow
up death forever.